---
title: Data Backup – Can your network cope?
author: admin
type: post
date: 2008-09-21T18:50:02+00:00
url: /425/
categories:
  - Blog

---
With more and more data being held electronically increasing importance is being placed on offsite storage and data backup solutions.  As a leading provider of bonded broadband connectivity, Evolving Networks are very involved in the provision of data networks to support backup solutions.

The old system of daily backups being downloaded to tape and taken home by someone in the office has many shortcomings, what if the tape is lost?  Stolen?  What if the nominated person is ill or on holiday

Such systems rely on the diligence of the people involved and the truth is that no matter how dedicated you or your staff might be, there will be days (weeks?) when the system breaks down.  And the chances are that will be the day when your server fails.

You might be replicating data between servers and backing up on site, the danger here is either a catastrophic power failure or fire wiping out the whole site.

Why put yourself through the sleepless nights?  The fact is that to ensure that your business can continue to function should the worst happen you need regular, automated backups to an offsite resource.

This may be another office or a specialised facility, either way you need to be sure that your data is being backed up and that the backups are being updated regularly.

Of course the choice of backup system needs to be carefully considered.  If going down the route of a specialist provider you need to be sure that the automation system is compatible with your existing set up.  Ease of data restoration should the worst happen is also an important factor to be clear about.

If you are replicating data between sites then you need to put thought into business continuity and your site to site comms. 

The other factor to consider when looking at offsite data backup is, how do you get your data off site to the storage facility?

As a specialist provider of innovation communications solutions Evolving Networks are experienced in providing data networks that have the ability to move data between sites to assist with offsite backup solutions.  We like to explore ways of making a bonded broadband solution work harder for our clients.

Typically a bonded broadband solution would be used as the primary internet link in an organisation.  Offsite backups are usually scheduled to take place outside of normal business hours.  It important to look for a bonded DSL service rather than a load balanced solution with would simply route the single data stream over a single line.

Bonded ADSL offers an excellent technological solution by virtue of utilising all the available capacity across all the links within the bonded solution.  At Evolving Networks we work closely with our clients to ensure bonded ADSL solutions match their business requirements.  Your link may be used for offsite data transfer but it can add an important strategic edge to your communications strategy as well.

<a title="Contact Evolving Networks - The Bonded ADSL Experts" href="/contact-us" target="_self">Find out more about how we can tailor a bonded broadband solution to suit your data backup needs</a>, or call 0330 55 55 333 to speak to a bonded broadband expert.