---
title: Cloud Computing is on the move!
author: admin
type: post
date: 2011-12-23T16:48:57+00:00
url: /cloud-computing-is-on-the-move/
categories:
  - Blog

---
To continue our focus on Cloud Computing, this issue will focus mainly on cloud computing and mobile technology. With a greater percentage of smartphones being sold last year and the steady increase in cloud computing, in the coming years we can expect a convergence between the two.

In particular we can expect to see businesses increasing the use of cloud computing solutions via their mobile devices. The main advantage is the mobility factor of these devices, allowing colleagues to communicate and enabling remote workers to add real value.

Over the past months, there have been a lot of predictions as to how much generate revenue can come from mobile cloud computing in the next couple of years. Independent information provider Visiongain has predicted that £29m can be generated by 2016 and also that 60% of businesses in developed markets will be accessing IT services from the cloud and paying for access on a per-use basis.

As the market has been seen to grow and evolve, so next we should see a period of rapid growth. This will push cloud computing further into the spotlight, moving it from a word of mouth technology to one of the most talked about technologies in the coming years.

The cloud computing sector this year has been valued at roughly £50m, but in five years’ time we will see this figure scale to £155m. This huge increase in the worth of the sector is to be partial due to mobile devices driving the adoption of cloud technologies.

Among the many reasons given for the anticipated rush in the popularity of mobile cloud computing is the momentous progress made in 3G technology and increasing smartphone popularity.

At Evolving Networks we are really excited by the constant growth of cloud computing and believe that over the coming years cloud computing will become truly pervasive, and mobile devices working in conjunction with resilient, high capacity internet connectivity will be a major factor in this growth.